Now that we've taken a look at the three different ways to determine the value of this we're going to
use this knowledge to fix up our scenario.
So we're going to make sure that the value of this inside the start function is always what we expect
it to be the first way that we can solve this is by making sure that we define the start method with
an arrow function.
Right now the syntax you see right here behind the scenes this actually gets translated into a normal
keyword function that looks like that right there.
So this is what happens behind the scenes right now we are not making use of an arrow function to define
start.
If we wanted to use an arrow function right here we would put right after starts equals and then between
the parentheses and the curly brace we would put in our arrow like so.
So this is going to define an arrow function and assign it to start.
So now we can use our rule back over here to determine what the value of this is going to be inside
this function.
But there's a little caveat.
This rule does hold.
But if we follow it to a T the first valid line above our arrow function.
This is not a valid line to put right here we can't do a console log of this right here.
That's why I said valid inside this diagram.
So we cannot put a console log right here.
Instead the first valid line above this arrow function would be outside of the class like up here.
Now normally if we do a console log out here we're going to get a console log of window because we're
essentially inside the global scope.
So in this case it would seem like this rule falls apart.
You would think that this rule does not actually hold but it does because there is a little trick when
we write out code like this right here we are using an advanced feature of JavaScript called class properties
behind the scenes.
JavaScript is going to take this function declaration right here and it's going to move it out of the
class.
We can actually see this in action.
If we take our class definition and run it through a tool you can find online called Babble battle takes.
Very modern javascript syntax and converts it down to much more basic or simplistic javascript that
can be ran or executed inside of older browsers.
It turns out that of the syntax we're using right now relies upon newer features of javascript that
are not supported in older browsers and so tools like babble just make sure that these very modern features
that we're using can still be executed safely inside of an older browser.
So going to take the code that we just wrote going to take this class right here I'm going to copy it
and I'm going to throw it into this babble tool.
So I'm gonna put my code on the left hand side and I'll see some output come on the right hand side.
So this is what would actually be executed inside of an older browser.
Or put another way this is how javascript kind of interprets our code at a more basic or simplistic
level so take a look at this.
When we define the start method using this class properties syntax because that's what we're using right
here it turns out that we're not actually defining an era function inside of the class body.
Instead the browser and this babble tool is going to massage the code that you wrote that's going to
take that function declaration and move it in to the constructor.
So this right here is the code that actually will be executed inside of a browser.
So this is what is really truly going on behind the scenes.
And once we see this you'll notice that our rule back over here still holds 100 percent.
Take a look at the constructor inside the constructor we define an arrow function.
So now we can't take this code right here and apply the original rule to it.
I'm going to do a quick copy paste back over here just so I can edit it very easily.
So this is what actually executes inside the browser.
And so if you want to figure out what the value of this is going to be inside the arrow function we're
going to go to the first valid line of code above the function declaration.
So that would be right here and we would then do a console log of this and whatever comes out of this
console log is what the value of this is going to be inside the arrow function.
And so because we're in the constructor we are always guaranteed that the value of this is going to
be equal to the instance of the class.
And so the value of this inside the arrow function is going to be equal to the instance of the class
so that's a secret behind solution number one that we have right here.
If we use an arrow function this rollback over here still applies.
And that's how we can fix the value of this inside the start function.
Now just to prove that I'm going to go back down to the bottom of the file I'm going to delete all this
extra test code that we put together down here and I'm going to delete the timer dot start line as well.
That was just a quick demonstration and then going to save this I'm going to go back over to my browser
I'm going to refresh the page and I'm going to click on the start button again.
And now we can see that these start button works as expected.
We were able to call a method defined on the class.
We could also if we wanted to reference instance variables as well so again this is solution number
one right here so in order to get the value of this inside the start method to what we wanted to be.
We just used the first rule right here.
Now let's take a look at how we would use method number two so if we want to do method number two we
can call bind on our function which will override the value of this inside of it when it actually gets
called.
This method is a little bit more advanced.
We are not going to use this method just about anywhere inside this course.
I'm only mentioning this way of fixing the value of this because you will see older projects older code
that uses this style.
So with this approach we could refactor our start method back to how it was before.
Like so and then we will find where we pass are this dot start function after the event listener and
then on start I'm going to call dot bind this like so so when we call dot bind this unlike calling apply
which invoke the function right away bind instead returns us a new function that we can call at some
point in the future.
So calling bind it doesn't run start right away we're still passing a function off to the event listener
that's going to be executed at some point in the future when user actually clicks on the button but
with BIND very so much call and apply we pass in the first argument to bind and that is going to be
what the value of this is forced to be inside of the start function it's now the value of this inside
the start function is going to be forced to the value of this out here inside the constructor which
is always once again going to be equal to the instance of the class which is what we wanted to be it
let's save this all do a quick test again I'll refresh hit start it once again I see important thing
what's done okay.
So that's it.
Those are the two very easy and most common ways that you're going to see it to fix the value of this
inside of a class.
So again we're going to rely on the first solution right here because it is definitely the more modern
way you know it's what you're going to see more frequently moving forward it's all defined the start
function using the class properties syntax like so I'm also going to remove the DOT bind over here and
restore it to just that finally I'm going to clean up the important method to call that was just a very
quick demonstration
OK.
So again I apologize for these three videos of going over a topic that was covered earlier maybe this
stuff was really challenging confusing all that kind of stuff.
The reason I went over it was just to show you a more practical example than what you might have seen
earlier inside the course and of course I'm showing it because this is going to be very critical to
how we put together our timer class as well it's now that we've got this this stuff all under wraps.
Quick pause right here we'll continue working on our timer class in just a moment.